Equivalent usages section in TCP (#32106)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/networking/sockets/tcp-classes.md

- Writes the sent message to the console.
- Finally, calls the <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.Stop%2A> method to stop listening on the port.

## Advanced TCP control with `Socket` class

> `TcpListener` and `TcpClient` classes internal implementation relies on the `Socket` class. This means you can do everything with `Socket` that you can do with `TcpClient` and `TcpListener`.

Reviewer: This extension for VS Code makes it easy to insert xref (API) links: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=docsmsft.docs-markdown

F1 -> Learn: Link to xref -> [type in some part of the API you want to insert]

Consider the following TCP client code:

```csharp
var listener = new TcpListener(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var acceptSocket = listener.AcceptSocket(); // var acceptSocket = listener.AcceptSocketAsync();
```

The preceding TCP listener code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var socket = new Socket(ep.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
var acceptSocket = socket.Accept(); // var acceptSocket = await socket.AcceptAsync();
```

### Create a `NetworkStream` to send and receive data

`TcpClient` class has a <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpClient.GetStream> helper method to instantiate a <xref:System.Net.Sockets.NetworkStream>. With `Socket`, you have to do it manually.

Consider the following `TcpClient` code:

```csharp
var client = new TcpClient();
NetworkStream stream = client.GetStream();
```

Which is equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var socket = new Socket(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);

> NetworkStream stream = new(socket, ownsSocket: true); // Please be aware, we're passing true as `ownsSocket` parameter to let stream object to own the socket. 

Reviewer 2: We should be more specific, and let's not mix two constructor styles in the same example.

```suggestion
// Be aware that transfering the ownership means that closing/disposing the stream will also close the underlying socket.
var stream = new NetworkStream(socket, ownsSocket: true);
```

```

> [!TIP]

> > <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket> class has advantage if you don't want to use `Stream`. There are <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.Send%2A>, <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.SendAsync%2A>, <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.Receive%2A> and <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.ReceiveAsync%2A> overloads in `Socket` class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If your code doesn't need to work with a <xref:System.IO.Stream> instance, you can rely on `Socket`'s Send/Receive methods (<xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.Send%2A>, <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.SendAsync%2A>, <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.Receive%2A> and <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.ReceiveAsync%2A>) directly instead of creating a <xref:System.Net.Sockets.NetworkStream>.
```

Consider the following TCP client code:

```csharp
var client = new TcpClient();
```

The preceding TCP client code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var socket = new Socket(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
```

#### The <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpClient.%23ctor(System.Net.Sockets.AddressFamily)?displayProperty=nameWithType> constructor

This constructor accepts only three `AddressFamily` values, otherwise it will throw a <xref:System.ArgumentException>. Valid values are:

- [AddressFamily.InterNetwork](xref:System.Net.Sockets.AddressFamily.InterNetwork): for IPv4 socket.
- [AddressFamily.InterNetworkV6](xref:System.Net.Sockets.AddressFamily.InterNetworkV6): for IPv6 socket.
- [AddressFamily.Unknown](xref:System.Net.Sockets.AddressFamily.Unknown): this will attempt to create a dual-stack socket, similarly to the default constructor.

Consider the following TCP client code:

```csharp
var client = new TcpClient(AddressFamily.InterNetwork);
```

The preceding TCP client code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var socket = new Socket(AddressFamily.InterNetwork, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
```

> #### The <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpClient.%23ctor(System.Net.IPEndPoint)?displayProperty=nameWithType> constructor

Reviewer 2: Looks like there are no `displayProperty`-s other than `nameWithType` and `fullName`. What happens if you remove `?displayProperty=nameWithType` entirely? Would it simplify `TcpClient.TcpClient(String, Int32)` to `TcpClient(String, Int32)`?

Author: Let's try

Upon creating the socket, this constructor will also **bind** it to the provided **local** `IPEndPoint`. The <xref:System.Net.IPEndPoint.AddressFamily?displayProperty=nameWithType> property is used to determine the address family of the socket.

Consider the following TCP client code:

```csharp
// Example IPEndPoint object
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Parse("127.0.0.1"), 5001);
var client = new TcpClient(ep);
```

The preceding TCP client code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
// Example IPEndPoint object
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Parse("127.0.0.1"), 5001);
var socket = new Socket(ep.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
socket.Bind(ep);
```

#### The <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpClient.%23ctor(System.String,System.Int32)?displayProperty=nameWithType> constructor

> This constructor will attempt to create a dual-stack similarly to the default constructor and **connect** it to the **remote** endpoint defined by `hostname` and `port`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This constructor will attempt to create a dual-stack similarly to the default constructor and **connect** it to the **remote** DNS endpoint defined by `hostname` and `port`.
```

Consider the following TCP client code:

```csharp
var client = new TcpClient("www.example.com", 80);
```

The preceding TCP client code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var socket = new Socket(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
socket.Connect("www.example.com", 80);
```

### Connect to server

All `Connect`, `ConnectAsync`, `BeginConnect` and `EndConnect` overloads in `TcpClient` are functionally equivalent to the corresponding `Socket` methods.

Consider the following TCP client code:

```csharp
var client = new TcpClient();
client.Connect("www.example.com", 80);
```

The above `TcpClient` code is equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var socket = new Socket(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
socket.Connect("www.example.com", 80);
```

### Create a server socket

> In `TcpListener` class, basically, constructors initializes underlying socket. One of them is `TcpListener(IPAddress localaddr, int port)`.

Reviewer 2: This sounds redundant to me considering the code sample below. Not sure how to rephrase it to make it more meaningful. Maybe we should just remove this sentence?

Author: Well, we can but I didn't want to leave a blank there.

Consider the following TCP listener code:

```csharp
var listener = new TcpListener(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
listener.Start(10);
```

The preceding TCP listener code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var socket = new Socket(ep.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
socket.Bind(ep);
try
{
    socket.Listen(10);
}
catch (SocketException)
{
    socket.Dispose();
}
```

### Accepting a connection on the server

Under the hood, incoming TCP connections are always creating a new socket when accepted. `TcpListener` can accept a <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket> instance directly (via <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptSocket> or <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptSocketAsync>) or it can accept a <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpClient> (via <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptTcpClient> and <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptTcpClientAsync>).

Consider the following `TcpClient` code:

```csharp
var listener = new TcpListener(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var acceptSocket = listener.AcceptSocket();

> // async code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

// async code:
```

feels more readable

// var acceptSocket = await listener.AcceptSocketAsync();
```

The preceding TCP listener code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var socket = new Socket(ep.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
var acceptSocket = socket.Accept();

> // async code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

// async code:
```

// var acceptSocket = await socket.AcceptAsync();
```

### Create a `NetworkStream` to send and receive data

With `TcpClient` you need to instantiate a <xref:System.Net.Sockets.NetworkStream> with the <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpClient.GetStream> method to be able to send and receive data . With `Socket`, you have to do the `NetworkStream` creation manually.

Consider the following `TcpClient` code:

```csharp
var client = new TcpClient();
NetworkStream stream = client.GetStream();
```

Which is equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var socket = new Socket(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);

> // Be aware that transfering the ownership means that closing/disposing the stream will also close the underlying socket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

// Be aware that transfering the ownership means that closing/disposing the stream will also close the underlying socket.
```

```

### Start listening on the server

The <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.Start> method is a wrapper combining Socket's <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.Bind%2A> and <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.Listen>.

Consider the following TCP listener code:

```csharp
var listener = new TcpListener(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
listener.Start(10);
```

The preceding TCP listener code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var socket = new Socket(ep.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
socket.Bind(ep);
try
{
    socket.Listen(10);
}
catch (SocketException)
{
    socket.Dispose();
}
```

### Accepting a connection on the server

Under the hood, incoming TCP connections are always creating a new socket when accepted. `TcpListener` can accept a <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket> instance directly (via <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptSocket> or <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptSocketAsync>) or it can accept a <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpClient> (via <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptTcpClient> and <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptTcpClientAsync>).

> Consider the following `TcpClient` code:

Reviewer 3: This says `TcpClient` but the code below is a `TcpListener`, which one is correct?

Author: It's a `TcpListener`, probably happened while copy pasting same lines.

> Consider the following `TcpClient` code:

Author: ```suggestion
Consider the following `TcpListener` code:
```

```csharp
var listener = new TcpListener(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);

> var acceptSocket = listener.AcceptSocket();
> 
> // async code:
> // var acceptSocket = await listener.AcceptSocketAsync();

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
var acceptedSocket = await listener.AcceptSocketAsync();

// Synchronous alternative.
// var acceptedSocket = listener.AcceptSocket();
```

Prefer async API

```

The preceding TCP listener code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp

> var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
> var socket = new Socket(ep.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
> var acceptSocket = socket.Accept();
> 
> // async code:
> // var acceptSocket = await socket.AcceptAsync();

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
var endPoint = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var socket = new Socket(endPoint.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
var acceptedSocket = await socket.AcceptAsync();

// Synchronous alternative
// var acceptedSocket = socket.Accept();
```

Again, prefer async APIs for I/O bound work.

- Writes the sent message to the console.
- Finally, calls the <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.Stop%2A> method to stop listening on the port.

## Advanced TCP control with `Socket` class

`TcpListener` and `TcpClient` classes internal implementation relies on the `Socket` class. This means you can do everything with `Socket` that you can do with `TcpClient` and `TcpListener`.

> ### Create a client

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Create a client socket
```

> `TcpClient`'s default constructor tries to create a [_dual-stack socket_](<xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.DualMode>) via `[new Socket(SocketType, ProtocolType)](xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket)` constructor, if [IPv6 is supported (Socket.OSSupportsIPv6 == true)](<xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.OSSupportsIPv6>). Otherwise, it fallbacks to IPv4 socket. Consider the following TCP client code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`TcpClient`'s default constructor tries to create a [_dual-stack socket_](<xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.DualMode>) via the `[new Socket(SocketType, ProtocolType)](xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket)` constructor. This constructor creates a dual-stack socket if [IPv6 is supported](<xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.OSSupportsIPv6>), otherwise, it falls back to IPv4.

Consider the following TCP client code:
```
Also, the links have to be fixed.

```csharp
var client = new TcpClient();
```

The preceding TCP client code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var socket = new Socket(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
```

> One of `TcpClient`'s constructor takes `AddressFamily` enum as a parameter. You can pass three different enum values to this constructor, otherwise, it throws an <xref:System.ArgumentException>. Valid enums are:

Reviewer 2: Need to link the specific constructor.

Author: IIUC, it's not possible to link to `specific` overload, but I changed it into `constructors` link. 

> Need to link the specific constructor.
> 

@IEvangelist is it possible?

Reviewer 3: Yes, you can link to a specific `.ctor`. Are you using the Learn Authoring Pack?

Author: Yes, I wouldn't be able to find a step to `link to specific`.

- [AddressFamily.InterNetwork](xref:System.Net.Sockets.AddressFamily.InterNetwork): for IPv4 socket.
- [AddressFamily.InterNetworkV6](xref:System.Net.Sockets.AddressFamily.InterNetworkV6): for IPv6 socket.
- [AddressFamily.Unknown](xref:System.Net.Sockets.AddressFamily.Unknown): for dual-stack socket (by default, this enum value is used).

Consider the following TCP client code:

```csharp
var client = new TcpClient(AddressFamily.InterNetwork);
```

The preceding TCP client code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var socket = new Socket(AddressFamily.InterNetwork, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
```

> Other `TcpClient`'s constructor takes an <xref:System.Net.IPEndPoint> class as a parameter. This constructor accepts an `AddressFamily` from <xref:System.Net.IPEndPoint.AddressFamily> property and creates a `Socket`. As part of this, it calls <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.Bind%2A> on the underlying `Socket` member with the given <xref:System.Net.IPEndPoint> argument. Consider the following TCP client code:

Reviewer 2: Here too. Would also start `Consider the following TCP client code:` in a new line.

```csharp
// Example IPEndPoint object
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Parse("127.0.0.1"), 5001);
var client = new TcpClient(ep);
```

The preceding TCP client code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
// Example IPEndPoint object
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Parse("127.0.0.1"), 5001);
var socket = new Socket(ep.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
socket.Bind(ep);
```

> Another `TcpClient` constructor overload accepts a `hostname` and `port` as parameters, the difference from the default constructor is that this constructor tries to connect to the given `hostname` and `port`. Consider the following TCP client code:

Reviewer 2: Also here. Might make sense to organize these 3 cases into sub-paragraphs, currently it feels hard to follow.

```csharp
var client = new TcpClient("www.example.com", 80);
```

The preceding TCP client code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var socket = new Socket(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
socket.Connect("www.example.com", 80);
```

### Connect to server

> Basically, every `Connect`, `ConnectAsync`, `BeginConnect` and `EndConnect` overload in `TcpClient` are functionally equivalent and their function signatures are same as well. Consider the following TCP client code:

Reviewer 2: Would leave out the part about the signatures.

```suggestion
All `Connect`, `ConnectAsync`, `BeginConnect` and `EndConnect` overloads in `TcpClient` are functionally equivalent to the corresponding `Socket` methods.

Consider the following TCP client code:
```

```csharp
var client = new TcpClient();
client.Connect("www.example.com", 80);
```

> The preceding TCP client code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above `TcpClient` code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:
```

```csharp
var socket = new Socket(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
socket.Connect("www.example.com", 80);
```

> ### Create a server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Create a server socket
```

> In `TcpListener` class, there are two constructors. Basically, both of them are initializes underlying socket. One of them is `TcpListener(IPAddress localaddr, int port)`. Consider the following TCP listener code:

Reviewer 2: What if we add more constructors in the future?

```csharp
var listener = new TcpListener(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
```

The preceding TCP listener code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var socket = new Socket(ep.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
```

> Other one is `TcpListener(IPEndPoint localEP)`, which does the same thing with the above constructor. Consider the following TCP listener code:

Reviewer 2: Demonstrating one constructor should be enough here, they do more or less the same.

```csharp
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var listener = new TcpListener(ep);
```

The preceding TCP listener code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var socket = new Socket(ep.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
```

> Also, there is a `static` <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.Create%2A> method as well. `Create` method creates _dual-stack_ socket if [IPv6 is supported (Socket.OSSupportsIPv6 == true)](<xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.OSSupportsIPv6>), otherwise creates IPv4 socket. Consider the following TCP listener code:

Reviewer 2: I would leave this out too. We don't have to document all the details here, and it feels like we may expose too many implementation details.

```csharp
var listener = TcpListener.Create(5000);
```

The preceding TCP listener code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var ep = new IPEndPoint(Socket.OSSupportsIPv6 ? IPAddress.IPv6Any : IPAddress.Any, 5000);
var socket = new Socket(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
```

> ### Start listening on server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Start listening on the server
```

> In `Socket` class there are two steps to start listening on a server, but in `TcpClient` calling `Start` function is enough. Consider the following TCP listener code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpClient.Start> method is a wrapper combining Socket's <xref:System.Net.Socket.Bind> and <xref:System.Net.Socket.Listen>.

Consider the following TCP listener code:
```
(Haven't checked the links in my suggestion, and the result may need some cosmetics.)

```csharp
var listener = new TcpListener(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
listener.Start(10);
```

The preceding TCP listener code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var socket = new Socket(ep.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
socket.Bind(ep);
try
{
    socket.Listen(10);
}
catch (SocketException)
{
    socket.Dispose();
}
```

> ### Accepting a connection on server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Accepting a connection on the server
```

> Basically, in `TcpListener` you can get two different type as return value on connection accept Those types are:
> 
> - <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket>
> - <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpClient>
> 
> You can get `TcpClient` from these functions: <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptTcpClient> and <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptTcpClientAsync>, and you can get `Socket` from these functions: <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptSocket> and <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptSocketAsync>.

Reviewer 2: We should try to be less verbose here:
```suggestion
`TcpListener` can accept both <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket> (via <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptSocket> or <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptSocketAsync>) and <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpClient> (via <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptTcpClient> and <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.AcceptTcpClientAsync>).
```

Consider the following TCP client code:

```csharp
var listener = new TcpListener(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var acceptSocket = listener.AcceptSocket(); // var acceptSocket = listener.AcceptSocketAsync();
```

The preceding TCP listener code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```csharp
var ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Loopback, 5000);
var socket = new Socket(ep.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
var acceptSocket = socket.Accept(); // var acceptSocket = await socket.AcceptAsync();
```

> ### Create a stream to send and receive data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Create a `NetworkStream` to send and receive data
```

> The difference in here is `TcpClient` class has a helper function for this if you want to create a `NetworkStream` which is called <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpClient.GetStream>, but in `Socket` class you should create it by yourself. Consider the following TCP client code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`TcpClient` class has a <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpClient.GetStream> helper method to instantiate a <xref:System.Net.Sockets.NetworkStream>. With `Socket`, you have to do it manually.

Consider the following `TcpClient` code:
```

```csharp
var client = new TcpClient();
NetworkStream stream = client.GetStream();
```

> The preceding TCP client code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Which is equivalent to the following socket code:
```

```csharp
var socket = new Socket(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
NetworkStream stream = new(socket, ownsSocket: true); // Please be aware, we're passing true as `ownsSocket` parameter to let stream object to own the socket. 
```

> [!TIP]

> > <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket> class has advantage if you don't want to use `Stream`. There are <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.Send%2A>, <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.SendAsync%2A>, <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.Receive%2A> and <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.ReceiveAsync%2A> overloads in `Socket` class.

Reviewer 2: What advantage do you mean?

Author: You don't have to create `NetworkStream` if you're using `Socket`, basically you can use `Send`, `Receive` functions in `Socket`. I meant it.

- Writes the sent message to the console.
- Finally, calls the <xref:System.Net.Sockets.TcpListener.Stop%2A> method to stop listening on the port.

## Equivalent usages of `TcpClient` and `TcpListener` classes in `Socket` class

`TcpListener` and `TcpClient` classes directly uses `Socket` class in underlying implementation. It means you can do everything with `Socket` that you can do with `TcpClient` and `TcpListener`.

> ### `TcpClient` Constructors

Reviewer 3: To adhere to style guidance, we should avoid gerunds. For example, instead of `Creating`, we say `Create`.

> `TcpClient's` default constructor basically tries to create a `dual mode socket`, if it's not viable, it creates IPv4 Socket via using `Socket(SocketType, ProtocolType)` constructor. It means following code snippets are equivalent:

Reviewer 2: I prefer the term "dual-stack", it's more widely known than "dual-mode". We can hyperlink the term to the [`Socket.DualMode`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.net.sockets.socket.dualmode?view=net-6.0) property to reduce confusion.

Won't it use `new Socket(SocketType, ProtocolType)` constructor in any case? (Which is then responsible for attempting to create a dual-stack socket.)

https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/5333727242ce5357c78bf268a9e4ed8a621bb4b4/src/libraries/System.Net.Sockets/src/System/Net/Sockets/TCPClient.cs#L339-L347

> if it's not viable

I would mention that it works when IPv6 is supported. (`Socket.OSSupportsIPv6 == true`)

```csharp
TcpClient client = new TcpClient();
```

```csharp
Socket socket = new Socket(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
```

> One of `TcpClient's` constructor takes `AddressFamily` enum as parameter. You can pass three different enum value to this constructor, otherwise it throws an <xref:System.ArgumentException>. Valid enums are:

Reviewer 2: Can we be more specific and link the mentioned constructor in the form: *"the constructor [`TcpClient(AddressFamily)`](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.net.sockets.tcpclient.-ctor?view=net-6.0&branch=main#system-net-sockets-tcpclient-ctor(system-net-sockets-addressfamily))"*.
@IEvangelist how can we do it with `xref`?

> One of `TcpClient's` constructor takes `AddressFamily` enum as parameter. You can pass three different enum value to this constructor, otherwise it throws an <xref:System.ArgumentException>. Valid enums are:

Reviewer 3: Yes, I prefer xref's. We have tooling locally that resolves them, the syntax is otherwise a bit clunky when suggesting changes from the GitHub UI. Ideally, the first time we refer to a type or member, we should use an xref, then after that, we can use the code syntax.

- `AddressFamily.InterNetwork` for IPv4 Socket
- `AddressFamily.InterNetworkV6` for IPv6 Socket

> - `AddressFamily.Unknown` for Dual-Mode Socket (basically default constructor calls this constructor with this enum value)

Reviewer 2: Would hyperlink these as well.

It means these code snippets are equivalent:

```csharp

> TcpClient client = new TcpClient(AddressFamily.InterNetwork);

Reviewer 2: @IEvangelist is there a guideline for `var x = new Foo()` vs. `Foo x = new()` in doc samples? I we should stick to one of them for consistency.

> TcpClient client = new TcpClient(AddressFamily.InterNetwork);

Reviewer 3: Our preference is whichever style results in the fewest number of characters. Most often we use `var` when the type is obvious. For inlined fields, was always preferred the target type `new`.

```

```csharp
Socket socket = new Socket(AddressFamily.InterNetwork, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
```

> Other `TcpClient's` constructor takes <xref:System.Net.IPEndPoint> class as parameter. This constructor basically gets `AddressFamily` from <xref:System.Net.IPEndPoint.AddressFamily> property and creates `Socket`, afterwards calls <xref:System.Net.Sockets.Socket.Bind%2A> on underlying `Socket` member with given <xref:System.Net.IPEndPoint> argument. Equivalent code snippets:

Reviewer 2: Also better to link the specific constructor here: `TcpClient(IPEndPoint)`.

```csharp
// Example IPEndPoint object
IPEndPoint ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Parse("127.0.0.1"), 5001);

TcpClient client = new TcpClient(ep);
```

```csharp
// Example IPEndPoint object
IPEndPoint ep = new IPEndPoint(IPAddress.Parse("127.0.0.1"), 5001);

Socket socket = new Socket(ep.AddressFamily, SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
socket.Bind(ep);
```

> Last but not least constructor overload of `TcpClient's` takes `hostname` and `port` as parameter, the difference from default constructor in here is; this constructor tries to connect given `hostname` and `port`. Equivalent code snippets:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Another `TcpClient` constructor overload accepts a `hostname` and `port` as parameters, the difference from the default constructor is that this constructor tries to connect to the given `hostname` and `port`. Consider the following TCP client code:
```

Reviewer 2: Same as above.

> ```csharp
> TcpClient client = new TcpClient("www.example.com", 80);
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```csharp
TcpClient client = new("www.example.com", 80);
```
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

The preceding TCP client code is functionally equivalent to the following socket code:

```

```csharp

> Socket socket = new Socket(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
> socket.Connect("www.example.com", 80);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Socket socket = new(SocketType.Stream, ProtocolType.Tcp);
socket.Connect("www.example.com", 80);
```
